In this lecture, we're going to learn how you can pass inputs to Jenkins job as parameters.
Why do we need this?
Most of the times you will run some file or infrastructure as code in Jenkins that requires some user
input.
For example, if we want to create a WordPress single instance by running a cloud formation and if we
open up this cloud formation, you can see this cloud formation expects a lot of input parameters such
as key name, instance, type, S-H, location, DB name, DB, user password, etc. We can use Jenkins
parameters to pass values into these cloud formation fields.
In this way, you don't need to hardcoded the values as well as for subsequent runs.
You can change up these values and run and test your cloud formation.
For this example, I'm going to use the exact same cloud formation for the WordPress.
I just copy pasted that cloud formation into this file into our DevOps git repository.
And then for this Jenkins job, we have this Jenkins file.
So I want to click that, ignore this first part.
For now, we are just going to display the WordPress JSON cloud formation content using this Shell script
command.
When it comes to Jenkins job parameter, there are two ways to define it.
One way is to using the Jenkins console.
So if we give the name, example, parameter and a pipeline job, click, okay.
You can see this option.
This project is parameterized.
You can select it and add the parameters.
The most popular parameter type is string parameter.
So let's say, for example, you want the database name to be accepted in the Jenkins job parameter
so I can go back, give the name as the same name.
We can give a default value.
What database?
You can give a little bit of description and then you can proceed and add multiple other parameters.
So this is definitely the easy way, but I don't like this way to do that because then everything is
controlled through console.
I want to control everything from the Jenkins file, right?
Because that's the idea of DevOps.
We want to codify all the jobs and all the infrastructure.
So I'm actually going to delete this parameter and now we are going to go over the Jenkins file.
I have opened the cloud formation and the Jenkins file side by side to define the Jenkins job parameters.
You need to have this parameter section and then you can define the type of parameter for this job.
We are going to use the string parameter and try as parameter.
For each parameter.
You have to have the name of the parameter.
You can think of it as the name of variable in the Jenkins job stack underscore name.
This will be the name of the cloud formation stack.
And then we're accepting parameters, underscore phylum.
So this is another layer of abstraction.
Instead of grabbing each parameter in the input, we want to list everything in a file in our repository,
and we will simply pass the name of the file as the parameters file name.
And then finally we are passing the template name, which is the actual name of the cloud formation
template.
And finally in the choice we are selecting which region we want this cloud formation to run.
For our first iteration, we are just running a simple shell script command of displaying the content
of this WordPress JSON cloud formation.
So the beauty of this is you can reuse the same Jenkins job using this parameter to run multiple cloud
formation because you can pass the name of the cloud formation in template, underscore name and the
parameters in parameters, underscore file, underscore name.
All right.
But first, let's go ahead in the Jenkins and set up the job.
So instead of selecting this project is parameterized, we are just going to select pipeline script
from ICM and then Git and then give the repository URL.
We have to adjust the name of the Jenkins file accordingly.
Click Save.
So there is a caveat here because Jenkins haven't grabbed the Jenkins file yet.
It will only grab the Jenkins file the first time this job runs.
That's why this Jenkins job doesn't know that these Jenkins job is parameterized and not going to ask
you for these parameters for the first time.
So let's try it out.
So let's click build now.
All right.
This job ran successfully.
If I go to the console output.
It's showing the cloud formation.
Now.
Take a look.
Now, if I go back to this job, you will see the building now has been replaced with build with parameters,
because now this Jenkins job has grabbed the Jenkins files and knows that it needs to grab some user
input.
So if I click Build with parameters now it's asking me the name of the stack name, parameter, file,
name, template, name and choice of our region.
So this is how you pass parameters to Jenkins job.
So in the next lecture, we are actually going to reuse this parameters and run our job.
All right, folks, join me in the next lecture.